---
title: "Anoshka and the Demon Tree"
date: 2020-02-17T20:38:44-08:00
tags: ['lore']
---

The curved edge of her <i>sikwa</i> flashed. She dropped the thick, fibrous <i>limoo</i> stalks into
a shallow flat-bottomed basket tied to her ankle and took one muddy step to the left. She grabbed
another handful of the hateful crop and swung the <i>sikwa</i> again.  <i>Grab, slice, drop,
step.</i>

The paddy was silent but for the rhythmic swishing of <i>sikwas</i> and the persistent buzz of giant
insects. The coolness of the mud between her toes was shocking against the wet heat of the
afternoon.  

<i>Grab slice drop step.</i>

Anoshka hated <i>limoo</i>. She hated planting it. She hated flooding it. She hated draining it.
Most of all, she hated harvesting it, wasting the glorious late summer days in muddy, squelching
paddies.

<i>Grab, slice, drop, step.</i>

All year long the heavy rain had pleased her father. Every morning he clasped his hands together and
exclaimed, "The <i>limoo</i> grows well, look! Toru rewards our respect!" Anoshka would say nothing
but inwardly prayed for drought.

Anoshka stood straight, pausing to adjust her skullcloth and wipe the humidity from her face. She
regarded the edge of the jungle on the far side of the paddy. The green-black mass of vegetation
rising a hundred feet in the air seemed to regard her in return. The Children of the Sun and Rain
knew better than to venture into the jungle. It was said Toru the Nightstalker hungers for
flesh, and prizes the sweetness of children most of all...

Anoshka snorted aloud at the baldness of the lie. Elders are always making up stories to scare
foolish children and keep them from wandering into an ant lair like a hungry tigu.

"Hey, dreaming girl! Perhaps you show Toru too much respect and refuse to take of his bounty, eh?
Ahah!" Anoshka turned quickly at the insult, jerking her basket and sending harvested
<i>limoo</i> stalks rolling into the mud.

Tey. 

Tey the great. Tey the chieftan's son. Tey, with his burnished skin and gleaming amber eyes, so
quick with the <i>sikwa</i> it seemed possessed of its own will. He flashed her a condescending smile,
showing his perfect, beautiful teeth.

Anoshka hated Tey even more than <i>limoo</i> stalks.

She turned her back on him and began to collect her scattered harvest. What's so wrong about
dreaming, anyway? The elders say Toru of the Sun and Rain dreamt he had a family of a hundred
children, and so taken was he with this dream he gave each of them life, and tribes of their own,
and cleared the jungle from the land for them to farm and flourish. And the Children of the Sun and
Rain had only to respect Toru's gifts, to care for the land that was given to them, and their lives
would be bountiful. If dreaming was good enough for Toru, why not Anoshka? What's wrong with wanting
something more than harvesting <i>limoo</i> until your fingers blister?

An elder approached leading a giant tigu lizard with dozens of stacks of tightly-wound stalks
strapped to its back, heading in the direction of the drying beds. He eyed first Anoshka's
dishevelled basket and then Anoshka herself. She was was about to respond with something impertinent
when the ground heaved beneath her and a crackling, concussive thunder blew across the limoo paddy,
flattening stalks and knocking people from their feet. Birds erupted from the jungle canopy,
shrieking their terror as they swarmed in the air, echoing the cries of the people on the ground.

Anoshka was tossed aside by the roiling earth and collided with the tigu lizard as she fell,
knocking loose the bundle straps. The tigu bolted with the speed of the truly terrified, abandoning
its minder and the harvest. The elder, whether pushed into the mud by the quake or by his erstwhile
pack lizard, simply gawped wide-eyed at Anoshka. Her head felt fuzzy. The mud was cool against her
skin. Somewhere close a child was crying.

Anoshka looked from the man to the retreating lizard, her hand somehow still clutching her
<i>sikwa</i>.  Afterwards she could not recall making the decision; one moment she was laying dazed
in the mud, the next she had sliced free of her basket rope and was dashing through the high stalks
in pursuit of a terrified lizard the size of a pony.

A lizard running straight for the jungle.

* * * 

Anoshka was quick, even as a child. "My gleaming daughter," her mother would say, "always you are in
such a rush. You came running from my womb so eager to be in the world!" But as quick as she was,
there was no way she was going to catch a stampeding tigu at full speed. The giant lizard crashed
into the jungle some two hundred feet ahead of her, its wide, lumbering frame shattering a
brittlebark tree as it careened headlong into the undergrowth. She leaped the wreckage and pursued
the lizard, yelling "Come back, stupid donkey!" Crossing over under the jungle canopy was like
entering a cave; she gasped at the coolness of the air pulling at her skin and the deep, mottled
shadows surrounding her. At first the path was obvious and she kept her pace following the giant
lizard's path of destruction. She could no longer see the tigu but the crunching and snapping of its
footfalls echoed before her.

Seconds later, the trail was gone completely.

Anoshka stopped, turned about. It was as if there had never been any trail at all: everywhere the
jungle was thick with large, drooping plants, gnarled veiny trees snaking between and around the
huge trunks of the canopy trees, and hanging vines as thick as her thigh. Flowers of explosive color
punctuated the inky greens and browns of the jungle floor, which was spongy with docomposition. The
Sun, always mighty and relentless, was powerless here, reduced to shafts of weak, glittery light
piercing a dense fog that hung high in the canopy. For the first time in her life, she could not
feel its warmth. She gulped lungfuls of peaty, redolent air, dumbfounded. Where was the path? She
couldn't have gone more than... well not far, anyway. And that donkey of a lizard couldn't have just
disappeared. But there was no sign of it and the only sounds the rushing of blood in her ears and
the breath in her throat. Was the jungle always this quiet? Shouldn't it be teaming, or something?
The first twinge of uneasiness tickled her stomach. Forget the lizard. Get back to the village.

Get out.

Moving more slowly now, Anoshka reversed her steps and made for the edge of the jungle. But after
two minutes there was still no sign she was going back the way she came. No snapped trees, no broken
undergrowth, no telltale muddy tigu footprints going the wrong way in front of her. She brushed
absently at her shoulder, only to find a snakey green tendril slowly wrapping around her arm. She
pulled away, stumbled, crashed into a sticky, bell-shaped purple and orange flower taller than she
was. A petal the size of a harvest basket pulled away with her, its sticky sap clinging to one
side of her face. Panicking now she ripped it away, pulling strands of hair along with it. She
turned away from the flower and began to run, but tripped on something, wrenching her ankle and
landing hard.


Anoshka sat, massaging her ankle, trying to get her breathing under control. She had stumbled into a
clearing of sorts, the ground punctuated by several large cones of sandy, dry earth. Near the centre
of the clearing was a tree of a kind she had never seen before, its foreshortened trunk splintering
into a riot of sinewy, curling branches that spread too wide, creating its own canopy over the
clearing. No leaves or flowers were visible on its crimson bark. How did she get here? She couldn't
be more than a few hundred strides from the edge of the jungle. She just had to-- Too late, her mind
connected the elders' teachings with the facts of her reality. Clearings. Sandy soil. Cone-shaped
mounds four and five feet tall.

Shit.

The first one erupted from the top of the cone nearest her, it's bulbous, chitinous body casting an
iridescent green glow about the jungle floor. It was followed quickly by four, no, five more. Six.
Ten. Twenty. In seconds they were everywhere, each ant the size of a small dog, the chittering,
clattering mandibles seeming to taste the air, reacting to her trespass. One of them crawled over
her foot and Anoshka shrieked involuntarily. This drew the attention of the swarm and as she
struggled to regain her footing the monstrous things rushed towards her. She kicked the closest away
with her foot, her bad ankle screaming in pain at the contact. It backed away momentarily before
vomiting a stream of green-yellow bile at her. It splattered across the ground next to her, bubbling
and hissing, blackening the soil to ash. The clacking of the swarm became louder. They were coming
now. 

Something slithered over her back then, quickly wrapping around her torso and through her legs,
binding an arm to her side. Long, tentacle-like branches reaching down from the tangled mass of the
tree wrenched her from the jungle floor. More branches found her as she was jerked upward and in a
moment she was enveloped, immobilized. Tiny red-brown branches with sharp-edged thorns moved across
her face, gagging her. She was pulled inwards towards the trunk of the tree as the surface of the
blood-red bark split and writhed, revealing a single jaundiced eye, its three-body pupil shot
through with bloody capillaries and giving it a malevolent cast. Beneath it a horizontal slit 
widened, curled, opened into a hideous parody of a smile from which spewed dozens, hundreds of fat
white grubs dropping to the waiting frenzy of giant ants who, having momentarily been denied a meal
fell upon them with relish.

The eye blinked, and in a voice like rot and splitting wood the tree spoke to her, the words garbled
by a mouthful of grubs. "You have come where you should not, little child of sun and rain. Have we
not given you all that you require?  Do we not sustain you? And yet you show us this disrespect? We
are disappointed."

Anosha screamed then, and found the razor vines slicing her lips, her mouth, her tongue. She tasted
blood.

Movement then in the corner of Anoshka's eye, and as she struggled to turn her head she saw the
thrashing, desperate form of the giant tigu lizard dangling from a thick branches wrapped around one
hindquarter. The creature was pulled between Anoshka and the trunk and with gentle, delicate slowness
the tree feasted on the tigu, its screeches of agony giving way to sickening, burbling wet crunching
as it was fed inexorably into the waiting maw. She watched, helpless, as blood and viscera
mixed with grubs pouring from the mouth, staining them crimson.

The eye closed, and the tree seemed to almost shiver. "Mmm, yes, delightful," it said. At length the
eye opened and regarded Anoshka once more. "It has been so long since we tasted the flesh of your
kind. We think we shall savour you. Yes. We shall... enjoy your repentance, your fear." The branches 
around Anoshka's face and mouth retracted. "Tell me, child of disrespect. Do you fear us?"

Anoshka nodded. "Yes." Her voice sounded bubbly and weak in her ears, and she spat blood.

The smile was too wide. "Good."

"Aren't we supposed to call you the Nightstalker?" The question just fell out.

"...What?"

<i>Keep talking. Just keep talking.</i> "Well I mean, you're a tree."

"So?"

"So you're not stalking anywhere. Trees don't stalk." She took a deep breath. "It's kind of a dumb name."

There was a silence.

"No it isn't!"

"The elders' stories aren't very specific, I'll grant you, but with a name like Toru the
Nightstalker, you sort of expect some kind of creature stalking you from the shadows. Or something."

"I have a mouth full of giant maggots! I just tore apart a lizard three times your size! I am a
demon tree!"

"Oh, no question, you are <i>terrifying</i>. I am going to need new wraps. I have never been so
scared in my life."

"Good. That is good, small one."

"I'm just saying, well..."

"Well what? Speak!"

"I'm just saying," Anoshka gulped. Was she really doing this? "If you're going to be a demon
<i>tree</i>, then probably the Children of the Sun and Rain can learn to live in the jungle. To
harvest its resources. Do those maggoty grub things grow anywhere else besides your mouth? Probably
they're good eating; the ants certainly seem to like them and if I can be honest with you frankly
anything sounds better than another season of boiled limoo stalk."

"What? No! To the Children of Sun and Rain were given the fields to toil! This jungle and its
temples are not for the likes of you! Your disrespect will be met with pain and terror your tiny
mortal mind cannot even imagine!"

"Unless we build a fence around you. Couple of warning signs."

"No-one will know of this place," said the tree, "Because I will rend the flesh from your bones and
put an end to your impertinence." And Anoshka felt her self being pulled forward. She had been
babbling, her frenzied mind working without thought, buying time, buying seconds of life but with no
real plan, just hoping for something, anything to happen. But now as she struggled hopelessly
against the branches and the putrid stench of the mouth washed over her as she was pulled closer,
the beginnings of a thought took hold. A way out.

She forced herself to relax, and said as casually as she could, "We'll find the temples."

The forward movement stopped. "I didn't say anything about temples."

"You did, you said, 'Temples.' If you eat me, when I don't return the Children of the Sun and Rain
will come looking for me, jungle or no, and they won't stop looking, and eventually they'll find the
temples. Are they nice? Can I see one? Who built them? How come Toru the Scary Tree--"

"Nightstalker!"

"How come he lets other people live in his sacred jungle and build temples but the Children of the
Sun and Rain have to live in a flooded mud puddle seven seasons a year? Doesn't seem fair. Once they
see actual jungle <i>temples</i>? I mean, I doubt the elders will even call a vote before we start
moving our stuff in."

"This cannot be permitted!"

The tree's rage echoed through the clearing, breaking the tide of ants like rock in the surf. They
began to retreat back into their hives, pulling a feast of bloodied grubs with them. Anoshka winced
inwardly, but forced herself to remain calm. She regarded the wide, hideous eye and asked, "Who's
going to stop us? They'll be coming for me, and when they don't find me..."

"Enough! No! This will not be permitted. You will return to the Children of the Sun and Rain. You
will leave my jungle and never return, and you will remind your people that they owe their pitiful
existence to the generosity of Toru the Sun and the Rain. And you will remind them of the horrible
fate that awaits any who transgress my laws! Toru the Nightstalker awaits you!"

* * * 

As the last ribbon of orange and red sank behind the canopy and twilight fell, Anoshka emerged from
the edge of the jungle and walked slowly through the ruined <i>limoo</i> paddies towards the
village. So relieved was her father at her return that it wasn't until the next day that Anoshka
learned of the strange tear in the sky that had appeared at the moment of the quake.

For years afterwards the Children would regard her with a weary eye, calling her Anoshka Jungle
Walker with as much admiration as admonishment. She married Tek, and he became chief. She would put
their daughters to sleep with stories of man-eating flowers and acid ants, of vines alive and
dangerous as snakes. Tek would smile quietly to himself at the shrieks of terror and delight from
his daughters, and in all their long years never once revealed to Anoshka that he knew of her treks
deep into the jungle, or asked what she was looking for, or if she ever found it.
