---
title: "Episode 46: the Heist, Part 2"
date: 2019-11-16T14:55:00-08:00
campaigndate: Wodag, 33st of the Bear, 3206 ME
tags: ['session']
---

The Party met with Sabetha at midday as scheduled, and the mysterious tiefling led them through the
back streets of Uman's Westfalls 4th neighbourhoods. They followed a circuitous route until, at
the base of the mountain wall at the westernmost edge of the tier they reached a narrow arched
passageway that led inside the mountain itself. Sabetha paused here, suddenly uncertain of the
practicality of the deal she had struck with the party. She asked the party if they knew anything of
the Pashtum family's reputation, and when they indicated their ignorance explained to them that
rumour held the Pashtum's primacy amongst the noble houses was due less to their business acumen or
aptitude for leadership, and more to do with bargains struck with mysterious hidden forces.

Rumour held one such bargain involved a colony of mountain dwarves said to be the original
architects of Uman, carving the Redfall mountainside into 7 walled tiers as part of a pact with the
denizens of Telisar to leave them in peace, while they burrowed ever deeper into the stone. The
riches of the mountain would belong to the dwarves; the mines and natural resources of the
surrounding lands would belong to the city.

Sabetha explained that the tunnels through which she was currently leading the party were assumed to
be remnants of that first, centuries-long architectural effort to build the city, as was the Pashtum
Bank itself -- which accounted for its subterranean location on the 2nd Tier, its advanced security
measures and the fact that in five hundred years nobody had ever successfully robbed it.

The party offered their new ally little in the way of assurances, but lacking any alternative, she
resumed leading them through the tunnels, progressing generally northward and up a long incline.  At
last the tunnel veered sharply to the left, ending in a small cavern. Sabetha stopped here, and
pointed to a side passage leading up and out of the cavern. She said this cavern marked the start of
"Fools Pass," a rumour of the Umani underground that claimed anyone able to scale the two thousand
feet of sheer cliff above the chamber would find ventilation shafts carved by those same dwarves
bringing fresh air -- and enterprising thieves -- down into the interior of the Pashtum Bank.

Sabetha bade the party farewell and left then, her telepathic muttering of incredulity echoing in
their minds.

The party followed the passageway and emerged in the afternoon sun on a small bluff in the centre of
a curved half-pipe of cliff that rose into the clouds above, and descended into mists below. The
tunnels had brought them to a cliff secluded from city views, allowing them to operate freely as
they began the dangerous ascent.

The party distributed the stolen harnesses and climbing potions and settled on a climbing order with
Keen at the top and Magnus at the bottom. Yuna decided against a harness, thinking that if
catastrophe struck her angelic form would permit her a minute of flight to react, a reaction that
would be complicated by a rope harness.

Their initial ascent went well, and the party made good time. The air was crisp and cold, but
fortunately any strange, supernatural weather seemed absent for the moment. For hours they climbed,
but as they passed through the last third of their ascent still without any summit in sight, the
physical exertion took its toll as party members slipped, lost footing, and found the angle of rock
more and more difficult to traverse.

As they approached what they estimated to be two thousand feet of vertical distance, Keen suddenly
shouted a warning to the party as a Chimera plummeted out of the sky towards the group, its three
heads snarling and shrieking. It attacked, goring, biting and slashing in turn and Keen, Ara and
Sirlius all took vicious wounds. The party unleashed a fury of spells, and the fearsome creature,
believing at first it had found easy prey began a frenzied fight for survival, unleashing a torrent
of fire from the dragon's head.

The ferocity of the attack overwhelmed Yuna, who blacked out, let go of the rope, and without a
harness began to plummet the thousands of feet to certain death. At the last moment she was saved by
Sirlius, who, showing surprisingly quick reflexes reached out and grabbed the back of Yuna's armor.
As Magnus and Sirlius worked to secure Yuna from falling, Keen attacked the bloodied, enraged
Chimera with his dancing rapier until Ara dealt it a death blow in a spectacular show of martial
prowress suspended from a rope harness tied to an immovable rod. As the Chimera breathed its last,
Ara summoned the power of the Akiiri Fist of the North Wind and sent it falling into the abyss with
a blast of gale-force wind. The Chimera dealt with, Ara quickly cast a healing spell on Yuna,
reviving her, and together the exhausted and shaken party climbed the last hundred feet to a rocky
promontory.

Faint, bloodied and burned, the party rested in the small cave they found on the promontory in
which the Chimera had been nesting. As they rested, Magnus let out a cry of surprise as with a sudden
flash of insight he formulated the alchemical process necessary to process residium into a refined
syrum to enact a binding such as the party shared, and further realized how to use a sample of an
existing binding as a catalyst for new serum. He quickly began recording his discovery by chiselling
it into his arcane orb.

Meanwhile, Keen noticed a crack in the wall at the back of the cave through which a slight breeze of
fresh air could be felt. Using Ara's Ring of Reduction he attempted to squeeze through the opening,
only to get stuck halfway. Sirlius helped free him, and the party realized that since the air was
flowing out of the crack there must be another way in to the space behind it. Magnus went back
outside and climbed up past the cave entrance, and found a wide, perfectly cylindrical shaft leading
down into the cliffside, cleverly disguised as a rock formation invisible from below.

The party joined Magnus and together they descended the shaft to alight in the cavernous space
behind the crack. There they discovered a network of shafts, some large, some small, all
disappearing into the darkness of the mountain interior: the ventilation system. This junction also
contained the skeleton of some long-dead halfling adventurer. Their story forever unknowable, the
adventurer had scratched a message into the stone floor encoded in thieves cant glyphs:

DEATH, DANGER, LEFT

VERY RICH MAN, DANGER, RIGHT

Keen deciphered the glyphs and the party regarded the two shafts large enough to traverse. Following
the posthumous warning the party descended the right shaft. They followed it sharply downward for a
time until it ended at a sharp drop. Using some of their climbing gear the party continued down the
vertical shaft to arrive at a three-way junction. Sirlius sent his raven familiar, a quill
illuminated by Yuna's light spell held in its beak, down the center passage, where it abruptly
disappeared, severing Sirlius's telepathic bond. The danger unclear but obvious, Ara considered the
two remaining shafts. He asked his guardian ancestor Aleh Xa to tell him how far away he stood from
Pashtum Bank, and discovered the right-most shaft was a few feet closer. The party followed it, and
resumed a careful, sharply-downward traversal through complete darkness.

After long, tense minutes in silence, the close-hewn ceiling suddenly rose, and the party found
themselves at the base of a deep well of darkness. At first they elected to continue on, but
Sirlius, thinking back to Sabetha's instructions, convinced the party to backtrack and investigate.
They did so, and Magnus cast a light cantrip to illuminate the space. The ceiling was lost to
darkness but at the very edge of the penumbra they could see more naturalistic formations of stone
high above, stalactites poking down out of the gloom. Unsure what to make of this, they resumed
their descent, but it was only moments before Magnus felt a thick, ropey tentacle wrap around his
neck and with vicious strength he was dragged back, away from the party and into the darkness.


Planning and Preparation Level: Surprisingly Effective

Near-Death Experiences: 1

Encounters avoided: 1/3

RP Rating: Awesome!
