---
title: "Episode 40: Levani and Tak, Reunited"
date: 2019-08-24T09:50:11-07:00
campaigndate: Syfdag, 31st of the Bear, 3206 ME
tags: ['session']
---

Refusing to be poked by an ambulatory mummified hand all night, Keen slipped the Ring of Bliss --
which he had managed to hide on his person after all, despite the party's equipment being
confiscated by the guards -- onto the hand's finger. Magnus, now blissfully stupid, settled down for
rest, and soon the whole party was asleep.

Ara awoke from his trance a few hours later to see Keen floating in the air between the bars of his
cell, twirling and somersaulting in his sleep. Eventually Keen floated gently back to the ground,
and the rest of the night passed without incident.

In the morning the party was roused by Bartok Brescht, the Captain-General of the Uman City Guard
and leader of House Bresht. He led them up out of the cells, through the barracks of the guard house
and out to the main thoroughfare of the 3rd Tier. The party was surprised to see that the sun had
not risen and the streets remained bathed in twilight, despite it being well past dawn.

Brescht explained to the party the terms of their service: noble though their intentions were, they
were nonetheless guilty of crimes against the citizens of the City of Uman: trespassing, attempted
theft, and assault; they must answer for these crimes, or the Guard would suffer political
consequences. He gave Yuna a large platinum medallion, inscribed on one side with a sword capped by
a crown with its tip in flames, the livery of the Holy Order of Woden, and on the other a
seven-sided device enclosing a seven-pointed star, the symbol of the Seven Noble Houses. With this
medallion the party would operate with the authority of Brescht himself, commanding those would
could aid them to do so. But Brescht also warned the party not to abuse this authority, to act only
in the interests of justice, and that their authority was not absolute: they may arrest those guilty
of crimes, but they must be brought before the Guard. Finally, the party was not to set foot above
the 5th Tier. Brescht dismissed them then, directing them to the Temple of Mimir on the 6th Tier,
where there was a report of a missing parishioner. 

Before he left, Brescht also whispered to Yuna that there was a mad-woman on the 7th Tier claiming
to be a prophetess of Drahni, and that while she had yet to cause any serious trouble, given Yuna's
possible affiliation with the God of the Hearth, she might want to look into it.

The party made their way down the Great Stair, a massive staircase connecting all seven Tiers of
Uman in long switchbacks. At each turning the posted guards regarded the party intently; it was
clear the Uman City Guard were aware of the party's status, and they were being watched.

At last the party arrived on the 6th Tier, where the hustle and bustle of the lower class's daily
mercantile and agricultural economy was just getting going. The lack of daylight gave the scene a
certain tenseness, and the party hurried their way west, towards the Westfalls Temple Distinct.

At the Grand Waterway, the arched stone bridges that span the gap of Long Drop Falls around which
the city is carved, the party encountered a skinny, dirty young elf setting up an easel and paints.
Magnus assumed this artist was there to do caricatures, and tried to engage the elf to do a portrait
of the party by the bridge. The Elf was initially agreeable, until Magnus tried to pay with coin
instead of scrip. Unable to come to terms the party left the young artist behind and crossed the
Waterway into Westfalls. 

Keen did not offer to pay with any of his scrip.

Eventually the party found their way to the Temple District, following Magnus's dim memory of the
city's geography from his time here 400 years ago. They stopped at the Temple of Syf, and relayed
a summary of the events that befell the Temple in Whitebridge to the Holy Father. Hearing the news
of the sacking of the temple and the town, the Holy Father excused himself for a few minutes, and
returned saying that he had just been in contact with Holy Mother Masym; the temple and its people
were well, and were returning to Whitebridge.

Heartened by this news the party continued on to the Temple of Mimir, where they were met by two
acolytes, their faces covered entirely by mirror masks, and who contradicted each other on every
point until they were dismissed by an older priestess. She thanked the party for coming, and told
them of Lady Margoleth, an elderly parishioner who had stopped attending the temple some weeks back,
and no word had been heard from her. Margoleth had a large manner home Eastfalls on 7th, where she
would often take in and care for children orphaned or abandoned to the evils of the city, and the
priestess speculated that she might have run afoul of the criminal element in some way.

The party agreed to try and find Lady Margoleth, and left the temple. Keen suggested they visit the
Lovers' Lament, a tavern he knew nearby, to try and get information about Lady Margoleth and her
dealings with the criminal underworld. They arrived at the Lovers' Lament and were met by Belia, the
taverns's rotund and buxom owner, who greeted Keen warmly. Just as they were settling in, an
olive-skinned, black-haired bard stumbled out of a guest room and down the stairs to the bar,
yelling for the barkeep. This was none other than Tak, the man whose errant summoning had dragged
Levani to the Dissian Catacombs and who had left her there for dead.

It took the inebriated Tak a few moments to recognize Levani, but when he did he expressed great joy
at seeing her safe, and appeared genuinely oblivious to her seething anger. His attempts at charm
only made Levani angrier, so to calm her Tak explained that he had only stabbed her and left her
trapped in Dis because he was heavily in debt to a criminal he referred to only as "That Sneaky
Fucking Tabaxi," which debt he had taken on only to pay off an earlier debt to the Skink, a criminal
organization operating mostly in south-eastern Telisar, outside of El Astrum. Retrieving the massive
green jewel from the catacombs required a blood-letting to break the lock, and since his first
companion on the adventure had tripped some sort of trap and been incinerated, he had no choice but
to use Levani.

Tak seemed to think this explanation was reasonable, but seeing that Levani was no less upset,
suggested that perhaps he could make it up to her by helping the party in some way. When they asked
about whether Tak had seen anything during his time at Zandilar's, or had heard anything about the
Dragonhead, Tak said no, but let slip that he intended to rob the Pashtum Bank to recover another of
the large green jewels, and that perhaps he could try to find some records or information about the
buyer that could help?

The discussion had moved to Tak's guest room. Eventually, despite his drunken state Tak realized he
was in danger. As he became increasingly wary, Magnus distracted Tak with questions about his
rapier, a fabulous piece with jeweled hilt and foil and which appeared to be enchanted, floating
into the air whenever Tak said the name "Levani." So distracted, Tak failed to notice that Keen had
slipped in behind him, and he placed the Hat of True Frog on his head. Tak transmuted into a small
frog, but slipped from Keen's grasp and hopped out the second story window.

Levani looked out to see the human form of Tak pick himself up out of a pile of refuse, the Hat of
True Frog having become dislodged in the fall. From the street, Tak bade Levani adieu and began to
cast a spell, but Levani used Step from the Ashes to teleport on top of him, knocking him to the
ground. She attempted to cast sleep on him, but he resisted; Magnus leapt out the window and grappled
Tak, but Tak cast Dimension Door and vanished.

Levani's scream of rage echoed through the alleyway, and as she raced to the street she heard a
crash from around the corner. She arrived to see a drunken Tak half-buried under a collapsed cabbage
cart. Keen and Ara both leapt out the window, and Yuna summoned Stella into the alley. While Ara
searched for the Hat of True Frog in the rubbish heap the rest of the party pursued Levani, arriving
just in time to see her loose a torrent of lightning at Tak, who screamed, turned invisible and
attempted to make his escape, but Stella bounded forward and tackled him, pinning him to the ground.
Keen cast fairy fire on the prone figure, and Magnus stuffed rags into Tak's mouth to prevent him
casting any more spells.

The party surrounded Tak, who realized he was beaten, and dropping the invisibility spell
surrendered himself to Yuna. They placed the Hat of True Frog on him again, this time Ara clutching
the frog and clasping the chin strap to secure it, and stashed the frog in his pack.

The crowd of cityfolk that had been watching this commotion began to disperse, and Levani caught a
glimpse of a tiefling in an alleyway, wearing the unmistakable oxblood robes of the Trajte Ur
Flasch, watching her, before pulling away into the shadows of the false twilight.


Tak's Financial Planning Rating: Poor


Tak's Self-Awareness Level: Poor


Levani's Fury: Sated?


RP Rating: Awesome!
