---
title: "Episode 36: the Liberation of Whitebridge, Part I"
date: 2019-06-01T13:46:13-07:00
campaigndate: Thordag, 29th of the Bear, 3206 ME
tags: ['session']
---

The party made ready and followed Jules out into the frigid winter night. The plan: sneak their way
up Coin Row, the wealthy district of Whitebridge, avoiding the mobs of goblin looters where
possible, to the Mayor's residence. Jules and Keen planned to sneak into the mansion, find and kill
the hobgoblin overlord, thereby breaking the hobgoblins' hold on the horder and liberating
Whitebridge. To do so, the rest of the party was to provide a distraction to draw out as many
goblins from the Mayor's residence as possible.

As the group approached Coin Row, Keen saw a group of goblins moving in and out of a large,
two-storey home, dragging out the entire contents of the building: furniture, crockery, clothing,
tools, and so on. Other goblins would pick through and pick up anything with metal and walk north
into the night, apparently delivering the items...somewhere.

Realizing that every home between them and the Mayor's residence was probably full of looters, the
party decided to try to get to the rooftops and make their way north undetected. Keen, Jules, and
Ara easily scaled the wall of the closest manor home and Levani vanished from the ground and
reappeared next to them using Step From the Ashes, leaving Yuna and Magnus below. Yuna was able to
scale the wall through sheer strength, hauling herself from window ledge to window ledge until she
reached the top, but Magnus was unable to find purchase.  Ara reached over the side and placed the
Immovable Rod in the air next to the wall, and with difficulty Magnus was able to use it to get most
of the way up, and his companions hauled him onto the rooftop.

The group, with Jules and Keen in the lead, carefully made their way from rooftop to rooftop, moving
north. An inch or more of crunchy, slippery snow coated the roofs, and more than once the party
nearly met with disaster as Magnus and Yuna struggled to keep their footing. Midway up Coin Row they
narrowly avoided detection as Magnus slipped and fell, his feet dangling over the edge of the roof
of one home, but luckily the looters were intent on their work and didn't notice.

At last they arrived near the north end of Coin Row. Keen and Jules slipped off the rooftop, snuck
across the open space and made for the wall surrounding the Mayor's residence, and signaled the rest
of the party to begin their distraction.

Levani set off a thunderwave, shattering the leaded glass windows of the homes all up and down Coin
Row (these having only recently been replaced after being shattered by the explosion in the sky some
weeks before), and alerting the horde in the area, and soon the ground below them was swaring with
goblins.

Jules unexpectedly gave Keen a forceful kiss, and then slipped over the wall to the Mayor's
residence. Keen followed, landing silently and together they narrowly avoided detection by a dozen
goblins who raced out of the Carriage House, out the gate and into the street, drawn by the sound of
Levani's magic. The door to the House was left standing ajar, and an eerie orange glow emanated from
within.

The two rogues made their way into the rear of the building through the servants' quarters, and
began searching the mansion for the Overlord.

Meanwhile, Yuna and Levani continued to use a combination of spells to cause confusion and
misdirection amongst the goblin mobs. Levani detonated an unsuspecting crow asleep on a nearby tree
using Eldritch Blast, a spell granted to her by the power of the Trazjte ur Flasch, the evil compact
from which she had been running all this time, and a spell which she had never used before. To her
horror as she unleashed the spell a black, oily laugh echoed in her mind, and a voice said "There
you are." The implications of this are as yet unknown.

The distraction worked until the arrival of a pair of large, blueskinned Hobgoblin Captains, who
took control of the chaos. Barking at the small goblins, they ordered one group back to the Carriage
House; it was at that momenta that the party on the rooftops was discovered, and battle was joined.
Several goblins sent a barrage of crossbow bolts towards the roof, two catching Yuna in the
shoulder. To her surprise however she suffered no damage, as Magnus had somehow absorbed the
effects.

Magnus and Ara made their way to the ground to meet the Hobgoblins in melee while Yuna and Levani
unleashed a torrent of spells against the goblins. Just then a huge explosion rocked the Mayor's
residence and the Carriage House exploded in a fireball, raining timber and debris across the lawn;
the black silhouette of a dragon rose into the air, its maddened roar striking terror into all.
With shouts of "It's loose! It's loose!" the bulk of the goblins in the street panicked and ran into
the night. Ara and Magnus dispatched the hobgoblin captains. Magnus extracted the residium slivers
from the hearts of the hobgoblins.

Watching the shape of the dragon turn towards the mansion, its body black against the bright orange
flare of the burning Carriage House, Levani urged her companions that it was time to get out of
town.

Inside Keen and Jules had been quietly searching the mansion, and came upon the formal dining room
filled with sleeping, drunken goblins. Jules made ready to sneak in and quietly dispatch them; Keen
called her back, kissed her through her long orange beard, and together they set about their work.
It was then, just as Keen had his hand on the hilt of a sleeping goblin's scimitar, that the
explosion of the carriage house rocked the mansion. The cacophony startled the goblins awake, and as
the dragon roared they too panicked, throwing down their weapons and nimbly escaping from the two
rogues.

Keen and Jules made their way to the grand staircase in the foyer of the mansion and ran headlong
into the Hobgoblin Overlord, a massive goblinoid standing perhaps eight feet tall, in full plate
mail and wielding a vicious two-handed glaive. Jules and Keen attacked, and traded blows with the
Overlord when with a deafening crash the dragon alighted on the roof, smashed its way down into the
second floor. Timbers snapping and walls collapsing the dragon burst through the wall at the top of
the grand staircase, and with a frenzied, crazed laugh it smote the Overlord with its mighty claws,
sundering the plate and digging deep into the surprised hobgoblin's flesh.

Keen watched as the copper dragon reared up, its head brushing the high ceiling of the foyer; in
an instant he saw that a large chunk of residium crystal had been embedded into the dragon's
breast, a spider web of blue/black veins snaking their way out from it and up the dragon's neck.

The dragon roared once more and unleashed a torrent of fire, filling the room. Keen lept to cover,
avoiding the blast, but the hobogoblin Overlord was consumed utterly, its charred and blackened body
collapsing backward down the staircase. As the searing light of the blast abated Keen saw with
horror that Jules lay unmoving, the left side of her body cooked and blistered.

Keen gripped the hilt of the Punisher and stood to face a crazed dragon alone and unaided as all
around him the blazing mansion, began to crumble.

Players' Dice Offense Rating: Jailable

Group Stealth Performance Rating: Surprising

Dragon Surprise Rating: Surprising

NPC Behaviour: Surprising, Inappropriate!

RP Rating: Awesome!
