---
Title: "Jules"
date: 2020-06-29T20:18:57-07:00
tags: ['homebrew', 'npc']
markup: md

statblock:
    name: "Jules Ultarson"
    size: Dwarf
    type: Rogue
    alignment: ??
    AC: ??
    HP: ??
    speed: ??
    STR: ??,0
    DEX: ??,0
    CON: ??,0
    INT: ??,0
    WIS: ??,0
    CHA: ??,0
    skills:
    saving_throws:
    resistances:
    damage_immunities:
    condition_immunities: 
    senses:
    languages: Common, Dwarfish
    cr:
---

Born Julia Ultardottir, Jules (she/her or they) is a non-binary Dwarven rogue, standing 4'6 with the
stocky build typical of her kind, though years as a message runner has built a leaner, more wiry
musculature. Her long, curly red hair is generally unkept, pulled back from her green eyes and
secured in a loose half-up ponytail with leather straps. It is matched by her prodigious red beard,
which extends to a scruffy point at her clavicle. She is 26 and the only child of Julia and Ultar
Ultarson, owners of the Greencrack Copper Mine on the Thorimfel Plateau, a region high in the
Redfall mountains. 

Jules spent her youth as a runner, quickly moving messages and deliveries for her father's company
and its clients, and later acting as escort for trader caravans moving in and out of Whitebridge.
Her rogue training began then, and by the time she left Whitebridge in her late teens Jules was a
formidable practitioner of two-weapon fighting, notably favouring throwing daggers.

Julia Ultarsson, wife of Ultar, died when Jules was just 17. Jules' grief took on an outwardly
rebellious attitude, quick to anger and eager to provoke a fight. She left home a few months after,
and didn't return to Whitebridge until the age of 23. Jules doesn't talk about her time away, but
upon her return she announced her non-binary status to her father, took the name "Jules," and began
working for the Mine, overseeing operations. No less argumentative, she quickly gained a renewed
reputation in Whitebridge, putting newly-acquired skills as a thief, lock-breaker and smuggler to
build a quietly grey economy in the town. This led to frequent antagonism with her former childhood
friend Elres, now captain of the Whitebridge Militia. Anyone attempting to pursue questions about
her activities quickly meets the end of a fist or a point of a dagger, however.

When Jules was 26 Greencrack Copper Mine was overrun by Kobolds in a sudden incursion. The workers
were imprisoned, the doors shut and all communication with the mine ceased. The leaders of of
Whitebridge debated what to do for several days; Jules became frustrated at their inaction and snuck
into the Mine in an attempt to rescue the trapped miners. She was captured herself, but together
with a group of adventurers helped lead a jail break that saw the captured miners freed and the
kobolds destroyed.

Following the events of the Liberation of Whitebridge, Jules has taken up a position in the royal
household of Whibraxis, the newly-declared dragon king, for whom she acts as advisor, messenger, and
spy.


{{< monster >}}

{{< /monster >}}
