---
title: "Madness at the Heart of Winter"
date: 2021-03-31T20:36:13-07:00
draft: true
tags: ['lore']
---

How does one detect sanity? Can you look upon a man, inspect his manner, his clothing, observe his gait, and say, "Ah, here is a man whose wits are about him?" Does it know itself, so that a man whose faculties are sound may say likewise of his brother, or raise alarm when a creeping madness is manifest? These questions I have pondered since that awful night. "Pondered," I say, as if it were mild whimsy, a mere academic diversion, not the barbed hooks of my own madness that holds these terrors fixed in my mind. Fixed, like the laughter of Mab in my ears, ringing. Raging. Howling. But I am not mad, am I? No. Those things, those unspeakable things, they were more than reverie, more than dream. They happened. I was there.

I saw.

Baal Aphasius was a Tiefling gentlemen whose aquaintance I had made some weeks prior to the night of 33rd Bear. A scholar, or so he claimed; a "Pilgrim Philosopher" recently arrived in El Astrum. We met over a disagreement of schedules at the Anthropology Desk of the great Public Library, having both, it seemed, reserved a copy of Pheseis Eternal's *Remarks*. We shared the tome over an afternoon, but Aphasius seemed less interested in study than I, and we soon fell to talking. I confess I did not care for him; his easy arrogance and insouciant mirth was jarring and off-putting. He seemed to think our accidental meeting a scandalous joke shared at my expense, so that by the time I was to extricate myself from the conversation I was quite determined to forget him.

Alas, Syf was telling it different and this curious, infuriating fellow quickly became an improbable fixture in my life. I saw him everywhere: at the Library of course but also chocolate houses, parks, even the market nearest my lodgings. Every encounter was the same, beginning with him loudly proclaiming his delight at our latest chance meeting before immediately insulting my dress, my grooming, or my choice of lunch. He would then take me about the shoulders and lead me to some common area for "tail-wagging and wits, or at least half of them, what, hey?" and my afternoon would be doomed.

Our third or fourth such encounter occurred in the first span or two of the Bear and as there seemed no escape I relented, and attempted by way of conversation to draw from him some detail of his academic pursuits. But of this Aphasius would say little; just that he had come to El Astrum to "put to rest some tired debate" before changing the subject. Loathe though he was to elucidate he seemed to have no issue putting me to the question, and his interrogations led us through all manner of subjects: What did I know of Sigil? (Nothing.) Had I studied the Elven diaspora after the fall of El Akiir? (Some.) Was I familiar with the city of Vakarlithien? (In name only.) Did I have any information regarding the current disposition and make-up of the Seelie and Unseelie Courts, their lords and lordlings, and their associations, if any, with the Freelings? (...?) I would explain that my own studies were predominately concerned with the Asmodean Intercession following the War of the Sisterhood and its effects on the proto-societies of the Material Plane during the First Era but he would invariably dismiss me with a wave, once even calling my entire field "mythical nonsense and popular tripe besides." I bristled, naturally, as any man of history would, but he appeared to take no notice. He said something odd then: "My people are at the centre of this, and of the Intercession too for that matter, but the answers are frozen in Winter." At the time I thought this just more of his typical ebullience, but the thought seemed to discomfit him, and he fell to brooding before abruptly taking his leave.

I didn't see him for more than a span at least and at length I began to think that this infuriating, fascinating fellow had left the city. But then, on the morning of the 33rd he stormed into my study alcove at the Library and to the furious shushing 

