---
title: "The Slaying of Enod al Usaloth"
date: 2020-08-21T12:01:14-07:00
tags: ['lore']
---

As Thorus tells it, the Dead Wastes were once not as they are now, harsh and barren and dry, but a
great inland sea. At the centre of the sea was an island, and upon it, glittering like a jewle, was
the great Elven city of Usaloth. Usaloth was ruled by Enod, a great king; his justice was swift, his
council close, and mercy wise. 

The sea was wild and changing; they say Zandilar herself danced in the waves in those days, and none
could approach the island city by water. All travel came to Usaloth through a great portal, guarded
day and night by Usaloth's elite soldiers, and separated from the island proper by a long, narrow
bridge. Many an incursion was halted by the simple method of felling the city's foes at the mouth of
the portal, blocking their advance; a small garrison could hold the entire island indefinitely, and
this they did, and for a millenia the city new peace, becoming a land of philosophy, science, and
art.

The slaying of Enod al Usaloth happened some nine hundred years into his reign. Knowing a direct
assault was all but impossible, the agents of Avernus had for more than a century attempted by guile
and deception to worm their way into the royal Court. Their goal was to influence Usaloth towards
a policy of sympathy for the devils at the front lines of the Blood War; the wealth of the Elves 
would bolster the devils' war against the demons of the Abysss, and they coveted it dearly.

Patiently, over long decades the devils' agents slowly turned the Court to their purpose. Imagine
the glory, they said, of Usaloth's might standing at the vanguard of the Blood War, chasing the
demons back to their Abyss and bringing peace to the celestial realms. Imagine the gratitude of
Mount Celestia, for making the borders of the Realms safe, for doing what they could not! Is this
not a just war; perhaps the only just war?

Now Enod was wise, but he was old, and more and more the rule of the city had fallen to his court.
And so perhaps the old king was blinded to the treachery of Avernus. Or perhaps he too was swayed by
honeyed words and thoughts of divine glory. Whatever the reason, Usaloth opened her portal to
Avernus, welcoming the legions of the 9 Hells to her bosom. Thus did Avernus conquer the great city
without a drop of devil blood shed. At once, the devils swarmed into the city, stripping it of
wealth, slaying or enslaving the populace, and pressganging the small guard into service in the
legions of the Blood War.

As the smoke of a city in flames and the cries of its people reached the royal tower, Enod strapped
on his armour, took up his spear, Melicathien, which means Gift of Blood in the hight tongue, and
calling his palace guard to his side, marched down into the streets of his city.

They say Enod and his guard fought very like demons, hard as the sea and as unyielding. Though the
city had fallen before they began, they were determined to drive the invaders back across the bridge
and through the portal. And this they did, block by block, street by street, house by house.

For days the gutters ran black with devil ichor. One by one Enod's guard fell, until at dawn on the
10th day Enod al Usaloth stood alone at the foot of the bridge connecting the fallen city to its
portal. The remaining devils fled screeching before him back to Avernus, their arms laden with
spoils.

Enod stepped out onto the bridge, meaning to chase them through the portal, destroying the gate on
their side, locking Usaloth away from Avernus for ever. But a shadow loomed in the swirling arcane
gate, and there emerged the lithe figure of Dispater, then but a field general in the armies of
Asmodeus, not yet the fearsome Duke of Hell. Dispater padded forward to meet Enod on the bridge,
dawn light glinting on the shaft of Melicathien, its tip dark with ichor. Dispater carried simple
weapons of bone and iron: a maul and backler, and slamming one against the other, baited the king
forward.

Enod was relentless, but Dispater would not be moved, grinning a silent, wicked grin as Melicathien
crashed against his shield again and again. Such was the thunder of Enod's blows that the very stone
under their feet began to shift, and warp, and crack. Finally, with a great cry of frustration, the
heart-rending misery and loss of a King presiding over the death of his kingdom filling throat,
Enod leapt to the air and with a vicious strike, quick as a snake and strong as a bull, shattered
Dispater's shield. Dispater was forced back and fell to one knee, but the stone bridge before him
finally gave way. As Enod alighted on the bridge it fell away beneath him, and the old king was
swallowed by the sea. Dispater howled in triumph, and with his legions behind him, claimed the city
for his own. He named it Dis, and brick by brick the devils carried it back to Avernus, until
nothing was left of the city and the island stood empty, a grave marker adrift on a sea stained with
blood.

Thus ends the tale of Enod al Usaloth, a good man who died too late.
